While preparing this book, we received extraordinary support and help
from many people, and we are deeply thankful to all of them. First
of all, we would like to thank those who were directly involved in the
underlying research and software development. Craig Kolb wrote the
ray tracer rayshade used to render many of the images included in
the book. Allan Snider developed several software tools, including a
previewer for rayshade, and provided valuable expertise in ray-tracing.
Daryl Hepting developed software for rendering sets defined by iterated
function systems and provided diagrams for Chapter 8. Norma Fuller
modeled several man-made objects incorporated into the images.
We would like to thank Zdzis? law Pawlak and Grzegorz Rozenberg
who initiated the contact between the Theoretical Biology Group at
the University of Utrecht and the Computer Graphics Group at the
University of Regina. Benoit Mandelbrot and Heinz-Otto Peitgen made
it possible to conduct parts of the reported research at Yale University
and the University of Bremen.
We are also grateful to all those who shared their knowledge with
us and made suggestions reflected in this book. Discussions and corre-
spondence with Jules Bloomenthal, Mark de Does, Pauline Hogeweg,
Jacqueline and Hermann Lück, Gavin Miller, Laurie Reuter, Dietmar
Saupe and Alvy Ray Smith were particularly fruitful.
Research reported in this book was funded by grants from the Nat-
ural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, as well as
an equipment donation and a research grant from Apple Computer,
Inc. We are particularly grateful to Mark Cutter for making the sup-
port from Apple possible. The Graphics Laboratory at the University
of Regina also enjoys continued support from the university. The influ-
ence of Lawrence Symes and R. Brien Maguire is deeply appreciated.
In addition, the University of Regina and the University of Utrecht
contributed towards travel expenses.
We would like to thank Springer-Verlag and in particular, Gerhard
Rossbach and Nina LaVoy from the Springer West Coast Office, for the
expedient publishing of this book.
Finally, we would like to thank our families and friends for their
love, support and patience while we worked on this book.
Bird (Aves) are a group of endothermic vertebrates, characterised by feathers, toothless beaked jaws, the laying of hard-shelled eggs, a high metabolic rate, a four-chambered heart, and a strong yet lightweight skeleton. Bird live worldwide and range in size from the bee hummingbird to the ostrich. They rank as the class of tetrapods with the most living species, at approximately ten thousand, with more than half of these being passerines, sometimes known as perching birds. Birds are the closest living relatives of crocodilians. Bird are descendants of extinct dinosaurs with feathers, making them the only surviving dinosaurs according to cladistics.
Early Records, a record label
In everyday language, the term worm is also applied to various other living forms such as larvae, insects, millipedes, centipedes, shipworms teredo worms, or even some vertebrates (creatures with a backbone) such as blindworms and caecilians. Worms can be divided into several groups, but are still technically decomposers.
Wurm, or wyrm was the Old English term for carnivorous reptiles serpents and mythical dragons. Worm has been used as a pejorative epithet to describe a cowardly, weak or pitiable person. Worms can also be farmed for the production of nutrient-rich vermicompost.
the beginning or oldest part of a defined historical period, as opposed to middle or late periods Early modern Europe
in or during the first part of a period of time, a course of action, a series of events, early in the year. See more.
Cheese is a food derived from milk that is produced in a wide range of flavors, textures, and forms by coagulation of the milk protein casein. It comprises proteins and fat from milk, usually the milk of cows, buffalo, goats, or sheep. During production, the milk is usually acidified, and adding the enzyme rennet causes coagulation. The solids are separated and pressed into final form. Some cheeses have molds on the rind, the outer layer, or throughout. Most cheeses melt at cooking temperature.
For a few cheeses, the milk is curdled by adding acids such as vinegar or lemon juice. Most cheeses are acidified to a lesser degree by bacteria, which turn milk sugars into lactic acid, then the addition of rennet completes the curdling
A specialist seller of cheese is sometimes known as a cheesemonger
A mouse (plural: mice) is a small rodent characteristically having a pointed snout, small rounded ears, a body-length scaly tail and a high breeding rate. The best known mouse species is the common house mouse (Mus musculus). It is also a popular pet. In some places, certain kinds of field mice are locally common. They are known to invade homes for food and shelter.
Cats, wild dogs, foxes, birds of prey, snakes and even certain kinds of arthropods have been known to prey heavily upon mice. Nevertheless, because of its remarkable adaptability to almost any environment, the mouse is one of the most successful mammalian genera living on Earth today.
The second (symbol: s) (abbreviated s or sec) is the base unit of time in the International System of Units / Système International d'Unités (SI)
SI prefixes are combined with the word second to denote subdivisions of the second, the millisecond (one thousandth of a second), the microsecond (one millionth of a second), and the nanosecond (one billionth of a second).
Geten är jamte faret ett av manniskans tidigaste husdjur. Tamgeten verkar forst ha blivit domesticerad i Zagros-bergen i Iran for ar sedan. De holls på hedar och betade på berg eller andra gronskande platser.
Handjuret kallas bock (eller något alderdomligt getabock), hondjuret get och avkomman killing.
Guden Pan har en gets bakkropp, och Dionysos kan forvandla sig till en get. I den nordiska mytologin finns geten som fruktbarhetssymbol
physical strength:
He swung with all his might.
superior power or strength; force:
the theory that might makes right.
with might and main, with all the vigor, force, or energy at one's command:
They pulled with might and main.